# Datasheet Template

As far as you can, complete the model datasheet. If you have got the data from the internet, you may not have all the information you need, but make sure you include all the information you do have. 

## Motivation 

This dataset was created to provide historical generation data and sensor readings to forecast the solar power generation of two indian power plants for the forthcoming days.
This dataset was created by Ani Kannal on Kaggle. (License: Data files © Original Authors) 

 
## Composition

The instances in this dataset represent observations or readings recorded at 15-minute intervals at 2 solar power plants. Each instance contains data related to a specific time point during the 34-day period. Each observation includes information about the ambient temperature, module temperature, and irradiation level at the plant:
    - DATE_TIME: date and time for each observation (recorded at 15-minute intervals)
    - PLANT_ID: Plant ID (common for the entire file)
    - SOURCE_KEY: sensor panel ID (two files: plant one has one common source panel ID for the entire file, as there's only one sensor panel for the plant, while for plant two, there are multiple and the sourcey stands for the inverter ID)
    - AMBIENT_TEMPERATURE: Ambient temperature at the solar plant
    - MODULE_TEMPERATURE: temperature reading for the module (solar panel) attached to the sensor panel
    - IRRADIATION: amount of irradiation for the 15-minute interval
    - DAILY_YIELD: cumulative sum of power generated on that day, till that point in time.
    - DC_POWER: Amount of DC power generated by the inverter (source_key) in this 15 minute interval. Units - kW.
    - AC_POWER: Amount of AC power generated by the inverter (source_key) in this 15 minute interval. Units - kW.
    - TOTAL_YIELD: This is the total yield for the inverter till that point in time.
There are 21076 instances of each type.

The following plant time records were missing sensor readings, however, the sensor readings before and after these instances were the same, so average of the readings before and after were taken. Relative to the
size of the dataset (over 140,000 readings), it's impact was negligible.
        - HmiyD2TTLFNqkNe 27.86219 46.63144 0.615273
        - 03/06/2020 14:00 4135001 1IF53ai7Xc0U56Y
        - 03/06/2020 14:00 4135001 adLQvlD726eNBSB
        - 03/06/2020 14:00 4135001 wCURE6d3bPkepu2
        - 03/06/2020 14:00 4135001 z9Y9gH1T5YWrNuG

This dataset is on a public domain: Kaggle: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/anikannal/solar-power-generation-data?resource=download&select=Plant_2_Generation_Data.csv

## Collection process

The dataset was gathered by the author at two solar power plants in India over a 34 day period.

## Preprocessing/cleaning/labelling

Using the notes provided by the source along with initial scanning of the data revealed some early issues. As mentioned above, there were a few blank plant records. However, this was fixed by taking the average of the record after and record before the blank entry. This was possible because the before and after were equal so no complex calculations had to be carried out. 
The data was merged into Training and Test data. Additional columns were added such as POWER_GENERATED, PG_ONE_HOUR_LAG, PG_TWO_HOUR_LAG, PG_ONNE_HOUR_CHANGE, PG_ONE_DAY_CHANGE, QUARTER_HOUR, HOUR_SIN, HOUR_COS, DailyYieldSameTimeYesterday, DailyYieldRateOfChange, AverageDailyYieldSummary, DependentTemperature, TemperatureIrradiation and TemperatureTImeOfDay. As well as this, features were explored and content was analysed. 
After carrying out a detailed analysis of the data, it was identified that the energy conversion efficiencies (ratio between AC/DC powers) should be between 93%-98% but when I calculated the efficiencies of both plants they were 9.75% and 97.5% for plant 1 and plant 2 respectively. Exactly one digit off. With a boxplot and some calculations it easy to see that it was a decimal point location error in the DC-POWER values. As a result, the DC_POWER column for plant one was multiplied by 10 in order to correct this.

 
## Uses

This dataset could also be used to 1) identify the need for panel cleaning/maintenance and 2) to identify faulty or suboptimally performing equipment

## Distribution

The dataset has been distributed already on Kaggle
License: Data files © Original Authors



